URL: https://docs.devin.ai/desktop/cascade/modes
TITLE: Cascade Modes

Cascade Modes 
 Documentation Index
 Fetch the complete documentation index at: /llms.txt 
 Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
 Skip to main content 
 Devin Docs home page English 
 

 
 
 Search...

 ⌘ K 
 
 Ask Assistant ⌘ I 
 Support 
 Devin 
 Devin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Search... 
 
 

 Navigation 
 
 
 
 Cascade 
 
 Cascade Modes

 
 Cloud 
 CLI 
 Desktop 
 Enterprise 
 Use Cases 
 API 
 Federal 
 

 
 Devin Desktop 

 Editor 
 
 
 
 Devin Local Agent 

 
 Cascade 
 
 
 Overview 

 
 Arena Mode 

 
 Modes 

 
 App Deploys 

 
 Web and Docs Search 

 
 Memories & Rules 

 
 Skills 

 
 AGENTS.md 

 
 Workflows 

 
 Worktrees 

 
 Model Context Protocol (MCP) 

 
 Cascade Hooks 

 
 
 Context Awareness 
 
 
 
 Troubleshooting 
 
 
 
 
 Agent Command Center 

 Agent Command Center 

 
 Spaces 

 
 Devin 

 
 Agent Client Protocol (preview) 

 
 Building a custom ACP agent 

 
 
 Releases 

 
 Changelog 

 
 
 Changelog (Next) 

 
 
 Releases 

 
 
 Releases (Next) 

 
 
 Windsurf Plugins 

 Changelog 
 
 
 
 Get Started 
 
 
 
 Features 
 
 
 
 Cascade (JetBrains) 
 
 
 
 Context Awareness 
 
 
 
 Best Practices 
 
 
 
 Troubleshooting 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts 

 Usage 

 
 Quota 

 
 Analytics 

 
 Teams & Enterprise 
 
 
 
 
 Security 

 FedRAMP Security Admin Guide 

 
 Reporting 

 
 

 
 
 
 On this page 
 Code Mode 
 Plan Mode Planning more deeply 
 Continuing from a plan 
 Exiting plan mode 
 
 Ask Mode 
 
 

 Cascade
 Cascade Modes
 
 
 Copy page Copy page 
 
 

 Devin Desktop offers multiple distinct agent modes, each optimized for different types of tasks.

 
 
 Copy page Copy page 
 
 
 Devin Desktop offers three distinct agent modes, each with a different set of capabilities designed for specific workflows. 
 Mode Use case Tools 
 Code Complex features, refactoring All tools enabled 
 Plan Complex features requiring planning All tools enabled 
 Ask Learning, planning, questions Search tools only 
 

 You can switch between different modes using the mode selector below the input box, or by using the keyboard shortcut ⌘+.
 (Mac) or Ctrl+.
 (Windows/Linux). The selector also offers permission modes, which control how much the agent asks before acting — see Permissions . 
 ​ 
 
 
 
 Code Mode 

 Code mode is Devin Desktop’s default fully agentic mode, designed for making changes to your codebase. 
 In Code mode, the agent can: 
 
 Create, edit, and delete files

 Run terminal commands

 Search and analyze your codebase

 Install dependencies

 Execute multi-step tasks autonomously

 
 Use Code mode when you want the agent to actively work on your project and implement changes. 
 
 
 We recommend you use Code mode as your default mode for most tasks.

 ​ 
 
 
 
 Plan Mode 

 Plan mode helps you think through complex tasks by developing a detailed implementation plan before writing any code. 
 In Plan mode, the agent will: 
 
 Explore your codebase to understand the current state

 Ask clarifying questions to ensure the plan aligns with your goals

 Provide multiple options for you to choose from with an interactive interface

 Present a detailed plan, written in an external Markdown file, with implementation steps

 
 The plan file lives outside your repository and persists for the session, so planning can span several messages. When the agent is finished, it asks to start implementing — or you can click “Implement” on the plan file yourself to switch to Code mode and begin. 
 ​ 
 
 
 
 Planning more deeply 

 Including the keyword megaplan
, ultraplan
, or masterplan
 anywhere in your message switches the conversation into Plan mode and makes the agent plan more extensively, asking at least one clarifying question before it writes the plan. The previous mode is restored once you remove the keyword. 
 
 
 
 
 In plan mode, Cascade often asks multiple choice questions to clarify your requirements
 

 ​ 
 
 
 
 Continuing from a plan 

 The markdown file created in plan mode can be particularly useful for continuing work across multiple sessions. 
 Plans are stored in your ~/.windsurf/plans
 or ~/.devin/plans
 directory, depending on the agent, and are available in the @mentions menu.
By mentioning a plan file, you can continue implementation with a fresh context. 
 This can be particularly useful when an initial implementation went awry: just discard the original changes, tweak the plan file, and click “Implement” to attempt implementation again in a new conversation. 
 ​ 
 
 
 
 Exiting plan mode 

 There are multiple different ways to move from planning to implementation: 
 
 Click the “Implement” button on the plan file

 Approve the agent’s request to leave Plan mode once the plan is ready

 Change your mode to Code mode in the input box

 Let the agent automatically switch to Code mode when it detects that you’re ready to implement

 
 ​ 
 
 
 
 Ask Mode 

 Ask mode is a read-only mode optimized for questions and exploration. 
 In ask mode, the agent can search and analyze your codebase, but cannot make any changes. 
 
 Arena Mode
 App Deploys
 
 
 
 

 linkedin x 
 Powered by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This documentation is built and hosted on Mintlify, a developer documentation platform 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Assistant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Responses are generated using AI and may contain mistakes.