URL: https://ampcode.com/news/the-dial
TITLE: The Dial

The Dial - Amp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Return to Amp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chronicle // [ News ] The Dial 
 July 9, 2026 The Dial 
 

 Amp's agent modes are now a dial: low
, medium
, high
, ultra
. They replace smart
, deep
, rush
, and large
.

 

 The old modes were models in disguise: each name hid a model, a prompt, a reasoning effort — and to pick one, you had to know what that model was like this month. That world is gone. The models converged, open-weight models got seriously good, and the only question left is capability against cost.

 The dial asks one question: how hard is this task?

 Missing in either direction costs you. Undershoot and the model churns: wrong fix, re-prompt, wrong fix again. You pay three times for a result you could have had once. Overshoot and you're using Fable to fix a typo. Set it right and you pay for exactly the intelligence the task needs.

 
 ultra
 — The outcome is clear, but the path is full of unknowns. Migrations, architecture, changes that span many files, systems, and decisions the model has to discover as it goes.

 high
 — You know where the change goes, but getting it right is hard: cross-cutting changes, concurrency, bugs where a subtle miss is expensive. You get diffs closer to reviewer-ready than medium
 gets you — but plan on one round of feedback before merging, and about twice the wait.

 medium
 — You know roughly what you want. This should be your default. It handles messy, multi-part tasks, fuzzy requirements, the steps you didn't spell out. Strong enough for most work, fast enough to steer.

 low
 — You know exactly what you want. Bug fixes, tests, refactors, features you can describe precisely. There is less to figure out for the model, so low
 builds it.

 
 Turn the dial with Ctrl+S
 in the CLI, or with the mode picker in the web app.

 

 Under the Hood

 We want you to know exactly what you're getting, so here's what backs each mode today. This wiring will change as models improve. The dial won't.

 
 ultra
: Claude Fable 5, with a system prompt written for it. GPT-5.6 Sol as the oracle.

 high
: GPT-5.6 Sol at xhigh
 reasoning effort. Claude Fable 5 as the oracle.

 medium
: GPT-5.6 Sol at medium reasoning effort. GPT-5.6 Sol at high effort as the oracle.

 low
: GLM-5.2, Z.ai's open-weight model, the strongest open model on agentic coding. GPT-5.6 Sol as the oracle. (Workspace admins can choose to use GPT-5.6 Terra low instead of GLM-5.2 here.)

 
 Reasoning effort is part of the tier now. No more cycling Opt+D
 through effort levels on top of picking a mode.

 Every mode has an oracle for second opinions. On the top tiers, it's the other frontier model: in high
, GPT-5.6 Sol writes and Fable reviews. In ultra
, Fable writes and GPT-5.6 Sol reviews.

 Migrating

 
 smart
, deep
 → medium
 (same model and effort as deep
). Turn up for hard problems.

 rush
 → low
.

 deep**3
 -> ultra
 or high

 
 Want to Tune It Yourself?

 The dial removes knobs from the default experience, not from Amp. Plugins can register their own agent modes with your model, your prompt, and your tools, and they show up right next to the built-in ones.

 We used that same plugin API to package up the deprecated modes — exact system prompts, exact tool lists, same models and reasoning efforts. If you want smart
, deep
, rush
, or large
 back, install them:

 amp plugins add --auto-update @amp/smart-classic
amp plugins add --auto-update @amp/deep-classic
amp plugins add --auto-update @amp/rush-classic
amp plugins add --auto-update @amp/large-classic

 Then run plugins: reload
 (or restart the CLI) and they appear in the mode picker as Smart (classic), Deep (classic), Rush (classic), and Large (classic) — the original names stay reserved for the built-ins. --auto-update
 keeps them current when we update the plugins; drop it if you'd rather pin. The full list of installable modes is on ampcode.com/modes .

 Start at medium
. Turn it down when the task is clear. Turn it up when a miss costs more than the wait.

 We'll follow up with posts on each mode and numbers on what each one can handle.

 
 
 
 Also of Interest
 GPT-5.5
 The predecessor of GPT-5.6 in Amp's high and medium modes 
 
 
 Read 
 

 

 
 
 All Systems Operational 
 Security 
 Privacy Policy 
 Terms of Service 
 

 Product
 Download App 
 Start 
 Sign In 
 Docs 
 What Are Orbs? 
 Models 
 
 Resources
 Chronicle 
 Pricing 
 Podcast 
 Press Kit 
 
 Guides
 How to Build an Agent 
 Context Management 
 
 Community
 𝕏 @ampcode 
 Amp Insiders 
 YouTube 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 . Layers appended to (bits-ui portals
 such as menus and dialogs, toasts, drag previews) would otherwise toggle the app
 root's :last-child state, and WebKit then restyles the entire app subtree on every
 open and close (tens of ms on a long thread). With this stable tail element only
 the tail's state changes, which is free. -->