URL: https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/menu-button/
TITLE: APG apg-menu pattern (source: w3c/aria-practices main, fetched 2026-09-05)

Menu Button Pattern 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Menu Button Pattern

 
 About This Pattern

 
 A menu button is a button that opens a menu as described in the Menu and Menubar Pattern .
 It is often styled as a typical push button with a downward pointing arrow or triangle to hint that activating the button will display a menu.
 

 

 
 
 Examples

 
 Action Menu Button Example Using aria-activedescendant : A button that opens a menu of actions or commands where focus in the menu is managed using aria-activedescendant.

 Action Menu Button Example Using element.focus() : A menu button made from an HTML button
 element that opens a menu of actions or commands where focus in the menu is managed using element.focus()
.

 Navigation Menu Button : A menu button made from an HTML a
 element that opens a menu of items that behave as links.

 
 

 
 Keyboard Interaction

 
 
 With focus on the button:
 
 Enter : opens the menu and places focus on the first menu item.

 Space : Opens the menu and places focus on the first menu item.

 (Optional) Down Arrow : opens the menu and moves focus to the first menu item.

 (Optional) Up Arrow : opens the menu and moves focus to the last menu item.

 
 

 The keyboard behaviors needed after the menu is open are described in the Menu and Menubar Pattern .

 
 

 
 WAI-ARIA Roles, States, and Properties

 
 The element that opens the menu has role button .

 The element with role button
 has aria-haspopup set to either menu
 or true
.

 
 When the menu is displayed, the element with role button
 has aria-expanded set to true
.
 When the menu is hidden, aria-expanded
 is set to false
.
 

 
 The element that contains the menu items displayed by activating the button has role menu .
 

 
 Optionally, the element with role button
 has a value specified for aria-controls that refers to the element with role menu
.
 

 Additional roles, states, and properties needed for the menu element are described in the Menu and Menubar Pattern .