URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039831974-Explore-the-navigation-bar-and-left-sidebar
TITLE: Explore the navigation bar and left sidebar

Explore the navigation bar and left sidebar &ndash; Figma Learn - Help Center 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Learn 
 

 
 
 
 Get started 
 Product documentation 
 Administration 
 Courses, tutorials, projects 
 Help 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 enter to select 
 ↑ ↓ to navigate 
 esc to close 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Design

 Design and prototype in one place

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Make

 

 Prompt to code anything you can imagine

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dev Mode

 Translate designs into code

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Weave

 New 
 

 AI workflows for imagery, video, and audio

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Motion

 New 
 

 Create precise, production-ready animations

 

 
 
 
 
 
 FigJam

 Collaborate with a digital whiteboard

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Draw

 

 Illustrate with advanced vector tools

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Slides

 Co-create presentations

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Sites

 Beta 
 

 Publish fully responsive websites

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Buzz

 Beta 
 

 Produce on-brand assets at scale

 

 
 
 
 
 
 AI

 Explore all Figma AI features

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Developer docs

 Work with APIs, embeds, and more

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 For everyone

 
 
 Account 
 
 Manage settings 

 Change preferences 

 
 

 
 Files and projects 
 
 Use the file browser 

 Manage files and projects 

 
 

 

 

 
 For administration

 
 
 Billing 
 
 Overview 

 Manage seats 

 Manage your plan 

 Pay for Figma
 

 
 

 
 Teams 
 
 Manage a team 

 
 

 
 Organizations 
 
 Overview 

 Login and authentication 

 Deploy Figma 

 Members and guests 

 Teams 

 Libraries and resources 

 
 

 
 Enterprise 
 
 Billing groups 

 Workspaces 

 Security features 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Find out more

 
 
 
 
 
 Courses and collections

 New 
 

 

 Level up your Figma skills with these comprehensive skill-based courses.

 
 
 
 
 
 Projects

 

 

 Get hands-on experience in Figma with these practical bite-sized projects.

 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorials

 

 

 Explore tools and features by watching and following along with these expert-led video tutorials.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 Get solutions

 
 
 
 
 Troubleshoot

 

 

 Get help with common issues and troubleshoot unexpected behavior.

 
 
 
 
 Work with support

 

 

 Submit a bug report, get help collecting log files, and find your system information.

 
 
 
 
 Common questions

 

 

 Get answers to frequently asked questions.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Figma Community Forum

 

 Ask the community, share ideas, and connect with other Figma users.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Get started 
 
 Product documentation 
 
 
 Products 
 Figma Design 
 Figma Make 
 Dev Mode 
 
 Figma Weave

 New 
 
 
 Figma Motion

 New 
 
 FigJam 
 Figma Draw 
 Figma Slides 
 
 Figma Sites

 Beta 
 
 
 Figma Buzz

 Beta 
 
 

 
 Features 
 AI 
 Accessibility 
 Developer docs 
 Figma Community 
 

 

 

 
 Administration 
 
 
 For everyone 
 Account 
 Files and projects 
 

 
 For administration 
 Billing 
 Teams 
 Organizations 
 Enterprise
 
 

 

 

 
 Courses, tutorials, projects 
 
 
 Find out more 
 Courses and collections 
 Projects 
 Tutorials 
 

 

 

 
 Help 
 
 
 Get solutions 
 Troubleshoot 
 Work with support 
 Common questions 
 Figma Community Forum 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Learn - Help Center 
 
 

 
 
 
 Figma Design 
 
 

 
 
 
 Tour the interface 
 
 

 
 
 
 Explore 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Explore the navigation bar and left sidebar 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Who can use this feature

 
 

 Available on all plans 

 
 

 Anyone with can edit
 access can interact with all tabs in the navigation bar

 
 

 Anyone with only can view
 access can view the File tab

 
 Figma Design files now have a new navigation bar!

 The new navigation bar provides entry points to your file’s essential workflows—like accessing the layers panel, the Figma agent, tools, viewing assets, updating variables, and more. The navigation bar sits along the left side of the file. 

 

 Here's what changed

 
 The variables view , formerly called the variables modal, has moved from the Properties panel (right sidebar) to the new navigation bar. Now you can access your variables collections at any time, even when you have layers selected.

 The File tab and Assets tab have moved from the left sidebar to the navigation bar . 

 
 File notifications and warnings , such as library updates and missing font alerts, are now at the bottom of the navigation bar.

 
 Additional tips

 
 
 Additional labels are turned on by default to help you identify each tab. You can toggle the labels on and off by going to &gt; View .

 
 Need a bit more room on the canvas? You can still minimize your UI by pressing ⌘ Command ⇧ Shift \ (Mac) or Ctrl Shift \ (Windows). This collapses the navigation bar, left sidebar, and right sidebar for an expanded view.

 

 Figma Design files have five distinct interactive areas: a toolbar, a navigation bar, left and right panels, and a scrollable canvas. These areas allow you to access, create, and adjust elements of your design.
 In this article, we’ll cover two areas of your design file: the (A) navigation bar and (B) left sidebar . We'll provide an overview of the main workflows for each section of the navigation bar and left sidebar.
 Looking to explore other parts of the file? Get an overview of the Figma Design file to learn about the canvas, toolbar, sidebars, and more.

 Navigation bar
 The navigation bar is the left-most vertical bar in a design file and contains tabs for essential workflows for your canvas—like navigating layers and pages, inserting components, managing variables, and reviewing file notifications. The navigation bar includes the following:
 
 Figma menu 

 Files tab 

 Agents tab 

 Assets tab 

 Tools tab 

 Variables view 

 File notifications 

 Left sidebar
 The left sidebar is the panel next to the navigation bar and contains dynamic content that changes based on the selected tab.
 
 Tip:  You can adjust the width of the left sidebar. This allows you to better see layer or asset names.

 
 Hover your cursor over the right-edge of the sidebar. A bidirectional arrow will appear.

 Click and drag to adjust the width of the sidebar.

 Release to set the sidebar width.

 

 Figma menu
 
 The Figma menu at the top of the sidebar provides access to various app commands, layer actions, file creation, and file preferences like  dark mode .
 File tab
 
 The File tab provides access to the file’s pages and layers. You can also rename the file, set file specific preferences, and minimize the file’s Figma UI panels and bars.
 You can quickly access the File tab using the keyboard shortcut:
 
 Mac:  ⌥ Option 1 

 Windows:  Alt 1 

 The edit file menu
 The Edit file menu allows you to perform file-specific actions—such as renaming the file , viewing its version history , setting its color profile , and moving the file to a different folder .
 To access the Edit file menu , click next to the file name.
 Pages panel
 You can create as many pages as you need within a file and are a great way to organize designs and content in a file. Each page has its own canvas, where you can explore and iterate on your designs. You can even create separate  prototypes  on each page. Learn how to create and manage pages .
 Find
 Use Find to quickly search the entire file for text, images, frames, components, and more. You can also switch to Replace to make bulk text changes. Learn more about find and replace .
 Layers panel
 Any frames, groups, or objects you add to the canvas will be visible in the Layers section of the File tab. New layers are added to the top of the list, or to the top of the group, frame, or section it is contained within. Or, just above the layer you currently have selected.
 You can determine if a layer is a frame, group or a specific type of object by the icon next to it:
 
 
 Frame

 
 Group

 
 Component

 
 Instance

 
 Text

 
 Shape—icon varies depending on the shape .

 
 Image

 
 Auto layout—icon varies depending on the auto layout's flow .

 
 Section

 
 Animated GIF or video

 
 Slot

 Figma nests any child objects within their parent group or frame. This allows you to collapse and expand layers within a group or Frame.
 Tip : To collapse all expanded layers, click Collapse layers in the top right corner of the Layers panel. If you've already selected a layer when you collapse layers, all expanded layers collapse except for your selection.

 There are many other ways to interact with layers:
 
 Select layers, groups, and frames 

 Adjust the z-index with layer order 

 Rename layers individually or in bulk 

 Toggle layer visibility 

 Lock and unlock layers 

 Tip: You can enable or disable the Highlight layers on hover setting. Go to Menu &gt; Preferences &gt; Highlight layers on hover .

 Minimize the UI
 If you want more space to view the contents of your canvas, you can click Minimize next to the file name to collapse the navigation bar, left sidebar, and right sidebar. You can also use the keyboard shortcut: 
 
 Mac: ⌘ Command ⇧ Shift \  

 Windows: Ctrl Shift \  

 If you select an object while the panels are minimized, the left sidebar remains minimized while the right sidebar expands so you can update the properties of the selected object. Once all objects are deselected, the right panel minimizes again.
 Agents tab
 
 Open the Agents tab to collaborate with the Figma agent to generate and remix designs, build plugins and shaders, automate busywork, and get design feedback.
 The left sidebar will contain a history of past chats that have taken place within file including chats you’ve created and chats by file collaborators if they’ve made it available to you.
 Click the New chat at the top of the sidebar to initiate a new conversation. You can click More options to change the chat access that other collaborators will have to the chat.
 Learn more about the Figma agent. 
 Assets tab
 
 Components  are UI elements that can be reused throughout your designs. This can be things like buttons or icons, or more complex assets like navigation menus or status bars.
 The Assets tab provides access to local components , or components from the current file, as well as components from kits  or  libraries  (requires edit access) that have been added to the file. You can drag any component from the assets panel onto the canvas to create an instance of the component.
 You can quickly access the Assets tab by using the keyboard shortcut:
 
 
 Mac : ⌥ Option 2 

 
 Windows : Alt 2 

 Once you've opened the assets view, you can:
 
 Open the Libraries modal

 Use the search field to find a specific component. Figma looks for components in the current file, as well as any libraries you can access.

 Open Libraries and settings to filter through available libraries, and to switch between Grid and List views

 Browse through All libraries that have been added to the file

 Explore a file, page, or frame by clicking on the arrow to expand it

 Figma lists team or organization libraries added to the file, and enabled UI kits, in the assets view

 Create an instance by dragging a component from the assets view on to the canvas

 Learn how to insert components from the assets tab. 
 Note : Figma groups components in the assets view by heading. If you have many components, Figma will present them as a path: file &gt; page &gt; frame .

 Libraries modal
 The Libraries modal allows you to publish assets—styles, components, and variables—from your files as a library. You can also use assets from other published libraries by adding them to the current file.
 To access your libraries from the assets tab, click Libraries to open the libraries modal.
 You can also quickly access the Libraries modal tab by using the keyboard shortcut:
 
 
 Mac : ⌥ Option 3 

 
 Windows : Alt 3 

 Get started with libraries .
 Note : A blue dot is added to the Libraries icon and the label changed to Review library updates if the file contains component instances with available updates. Learn about library updates .

 Tools tab
 The Tools tab contains an assortment of plugins, widgets, shaders, and Weave tools that you can use to extend the capabilities of Figma Design and support your specific workflows.
 Find specific tools from the search bar or use various filters to narrow down your search. 
 Plugins
 Plugins are applications that extend the functionality of Figma's products. You can automate repetitive tasks and add functionality that isn't native to the tool, like generating content, cleaning up layers, or connecting to external tools. 
 Learn how to find and use plugins , or build your own . 
 Tip : Filter by Created by Figma to find plugins built by the Figma team that you can use for free in your design files. Available to everyone.

 Widgets
 Widgets are interactive objects that you can add to the canvas to customize how you and your team work together. You can add things like voting widgets, data from external applications, or new ways to play.
 Learn how to find and use widgets , or build your own .
 Shaders
 Shaders fills and shader effects give you precise control over the visual appearance of how something is rendered on your screen, allowing you to create striking visuals like frosted glass, holographic shimmers, and realistic fire textures.
 Add a shader fill to create a visual element, like a pattern or complex gradient. Apply a shader effect to modify how a layer renders, like adding a distortion on an existing image.
 Learn how to use shader fills and shader effects in your designs, or build your own shaders .
 Tip : Filter by Created by Figma to find shaders built by the Figma team that you can use for free in your design files. Available to everyone.

 Weave tools
 Weave tools bring AI-powered capabilities into your design workflow, helping you generate, edit, and refine work without leaving the canvas.
 Learn more about Weave tools. 
 Variables view
 
 Variables in Figma Design store reusable values and tokens that can be applied to all kinds of design properties. The Variables view gives you access to creating and editing variables, modes, and collections.
 Learn how to create and manage variables. 
 File notifications
 
 The bottom of the navigation bar contains notifications and warnings specific to the file, if any exist. This can include things such as library updates , missing font alerts , and offline statuses —which will only appear in the case that any messages exist.

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Was this article helpful? 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Help Center feedback 
 
 Got a second? Tell us what we’re doing well. 
 
 
 
 
 Submit article feedback 
 Your feedback helps us improve Figma’s Help Center. To get help from support, submit a request through our contact form .

 
 
 
 Help Center feedback 
 
 Thanks for letting us know! What was the issue? 
 
 
 
 
 -- Please choose an option -- 
 Incorrect or missing information 
 Hard to understand 
 There are typos or broken links 
 Issues with images, GIFs, or videos 
 I wish the feature worked a different way 
 Something else 
 
 
 Submit article feedback 
 Your feedback helps us improve Figma’s Help Center. To get help from support, submit a request through our contact form .

 
 

 
 
 Thank you for helping us improve Figma’s Help Center!

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 English (United States)
 
 
 
 Deutsch
 
 
 
 Español (Latinoamérica)
 
 
 
 Español (España)
 
 
 
 Français
 
 
 
 日本語
 
 
 
 한국어
 
 
 
 Nederlands (Nederland)
 
 
 
 Polski (Polska)
 
 
 
 Português do Brasil
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 Use cases

 
 
 UI design 
 

 
 UX design 
 

 
 Prototyping 
 

 
 Graphic design 
 

 
 Wireframing 
 

 
 Brainstorming 
 

 
 Templates 
 

 
 Remote design 
 

 
 

 
 Explore

 
 
 Design features 
 

 
 Prototyping features 
 

 
 Design systems features 
 

 
 Collaboration features 
 

 
 FigJam 
 

 
 Pricing 
 

 
 Enterprise 
 

 
 Students and educators 
 

 
 Customers 
 

 
 Security 
 

 
 Integrations 
 

 
 Contact 
 

 
 

 
 Resources

 
 
 Blog 
 

 
 Best practices 
 

 
 Support 
 

 
 Developers 
 

 
 Learn design 
 

 
 Downloads 
 

 
 What's new 
 

 
 Releases 
 

 
 Careers 
 

 
 About us 
 

 
 Agency partners 
 

 
 Privacy 
 

 
 Status