URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041065034-Adjust-your-zoom-and-view-options
TITLE: Adjust your zoom and view options &ndash; Figma Learn - Help Center

Adjust your zoom and view options &ndash; Figma Learn - Help Center 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Learn 
 

 
 
 
 Get started 
 Product documentation 
 Administration 
 Courses, tutorials, projects 
 Help 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 enter to select 
 ↑ ↓ to navigate 
 esc to close 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Design

 Design and prototype in one place

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Make

 

 Prompt to code anything you can imagine

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dev Mode

 Translate designs into code

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Weave

 New 
 

 AI workflows for imagery, video, and audio

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Motion

 New 
 

 Create precise, production-ready animations

 

 
 
 
 
 
 FigJam

 Collaborate with a digital whiteboard

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Draw

 

 Illustrate with advanced vector tools

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Slides

 Co-create presentations

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Sites

 Beta 
 

 Publish fully responsive websites

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Buzz

 Beta 
 

 Produce on-brand assets at scale

 

 
 
 
 
 
 AI

 Explore all Figma AI features

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Developer docs

 Work with APIs, embeds, and more

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 For everyone

 
 
 Account 
 
 Manage settings 

 Change preferences 

 
 

 
 Files and projects 
 
 Use the file browser 

 Manage files and projects 

 
 

 

 

 
 For administration

 
 
 Billing 
 
 Overview 

 Manage seats 

 Manage your plan 

 Pay for Figma
 

 
 

 
 Teams 
 
 Manage a team 

 
 

 
 Organizations 
 
 Overview 

 Login and authentication 

 Deploy Figma 

 Members and guests 

 Teams 

 Libraries and resources 

 
 

 
 Enterprise 
 
 Billing groups 

 Workspaces 

 Security features 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Find out more

 
 
 
 
 
 Courses and collections

 New 
 

 

 Level up your Figma skills with these comprehensive skill-based courses.

 
 
 
 
 
 Projects

 

 

 Get hands-on experience in Figma with these practical bite-sized projects.

 
 
 
 
 
 Tutorials

 

 

 Explore tools and features by watching and following along with these expert-led video tutorials.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 Get solutions

 
 
 
 
 Troubleshoot

 

 

 Get help with common issues and troubleshoot unexpected behavior.

 
 
 
 
 Work with support

 

 

 Submit a bug report, get help collecting log files, and find your system information.

 
 
 
 
 Common questions

 

 

 Get answers to frequently asked questions.

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Figma Community Forum

 

 Ask the community, share ideas, and connect with other Figma users.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Get started 
 
 Product documentation 
 
 
 Products 
 Figma Design 
 Figma Make 
 Dev Mode 
 
 Figma Weave

 New 
 
 
 Figma Motion

 New 
 
 FigJam 
 Figma Draw 
 Figma Slides 
 
 Figma Sites

 Beta 
 
 
 Figma Buzz

 Beta 
 
 

 
 Features 
 AI 
 Accessibility 
 Developer docs 
 Figma Community 
 

 

 

 
 Administration 
 
 
 For everyone 
 Account 
 Files and projects 
 

 
 For administration 
 Billing 
 Teams 
 Organizations 
 Enterprise
 
 

 

 

 
 Courses, tutorials, projects 
 
 
 Find out more 
 Courses and collections 
 Projects 
 Tutorials 
 

 

 

 
 Help 
 
 
 Get solutions 
 Troubleshoot 
 Work with support 
 Common questions 
 Figma Community Forum 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figma Learn - Help Center 
 
 

 
 
 
 Figma Design 
 
 

 
 
 
 Tour the interface 
 
 

 
 
 
 File utilities 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Adjust your zoom and view options 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Who can use this feature

 
 
 Available on any plan 

 
 You can customize your view preferences for files in the Zoom/view options menu in the right sidebar. Adjust your zoom settings, or toggle on other view options like layout guides or multiplayer cursors.

 

 Canvas zoom settings

 There are a number of ways to adjust canvas zoom in files. Any changes you make to zoom only apply in the current tab for that file.

 When you first open a file, the default zoom level will be set to Zoom to fit . This focuses the viewport so you can see everything on the current page.

 
 
 Note: These zoom settings only apply to layers and objects on the canvas. If you're using the desktop app, you can adjust the scale of Figma's interface , which includes the toolbar, and the left and right sidebars. If you're using Figma in a browser, you can use your browser's zoom settings to adjust the size of the interface.

 Zoom percentages

 You can view the current zoom percentage in the top-right corner of the right sidebar. You can enter a custom percentage value or choose from the default zoom percentages. You can also use the following keyboard shortcuts to change the zoom percentage:

 
 
 Zoom in : Shift + 

 
 Zoom out : Shift - 

 
 Zoom to fit : Shift 1 

 
 Zoom to selection : Shift 2 

 
 

 
 
 Tip:  If you are opening a Figma URL that links to a specific layer, the canvas will be zoomed to fit that specific layer.

 Mouse and trackpad gestures

 You can also use your mouse or trackpad to zoom the canvas.

 On both Mac and Windows trackpads, you can use the following gestures to adjust zoom:

 
 Stretch two fingers apart to zoom in

 Pinch two fingers together to zoom out

 
 On an Apple Magic Mouse:

 
 Hold down Command (Mac) or Ctrl (Windows) and scroll up and down

 Double-tap with one finger to zoom in and back out

 
 Using a mouse wheel:

 
 Hold down Command (Mac) or Ctrl (Windows) and scroll the mouse wheel up to zoom in, or down to zoom out.

 
 Pixel preview

 By default, vectors in Figma are rendered as resolution-independent. This means that there aren't fixed resolutions for the paths you create in the canvas.

 To support pixel-precise editing, you can enable pixel preview. This allows you to preview vector objects in their rasterized format.

 You can view pixel preview in either 1x or 2x mode. This is helpful for viewing how objects will appear on both low and high resolution displays.

 

 To manage your pixel preview settings:

 
 Open the Zoom/view options menu.

 Hover over the Pixel preview option to open the menu.

 Select either 1x or 2x from the options, or select Disabled to turn off pixel preview.

 
 A checkmark will appear next to the setting in the menu. You will also see a notification at the bottom of your screen to confirm your selection.

 
 
 Tip:  You can also use the shortcut to toggle pixel preview off and on:

 
 Mac: Control P 

 Windows: Control Alt P 

 

 Pixel grid

 For greater accuracy when placing and aligning objects, you can enable the pixel grid. Each square in the pixel grid represents a single pixel, when exported at 1x resolution.

 

 
 Open the Zoom/view options menu.

 If there is no check next to it: select Pixel grid to toggle this on.

 If there is already a check next to Pixel grid , you can click it again to toggle it off.

 You can also use the keyboard shortcuts to toggle the pixel grid off and on:
 
 
 Mac : Command ' 

 
 Windows : Ctrl ' 

 

 
 Snap to pixel grid

 The pixel grid is only visible at zoom levels of 400% or higher. If you want to use the pixel grid while zoomed out, the Snap to pixel grid setting is a great tool.

 When you enable this setting, we will align objects to the underlying grid when placing or moving them. This can help to prevent misaligned pixel errors when exporting elements.

 
 
 Note : Frames, sections, and components always snap to the pixel grid, even if Snap to pixel grid is disabled.

 To toggle snap to pixel grid, open the  Zoom/view options  menu (from the zoom level in the toolbar) and select Snap to pixel grid , or use keyboard shortcut:

 
 
 Mac : Command Shift ' 

 
 Windows : Control Shift ' 

 
 
 
 Tip:  You can temporarily disable Snap to pixel grid by holding Control while in vector edit mode and zoomed in to the canvas.

 To know if you’ve zoomed in to the canvas enough, turn on the pixel grid ⇧ Shift ' and zoom in until the grid is visible. You can disable the pixel grid at any time as it isn’t needed to disable snap to pixel grid.

 Layout guides

 You can toggle the visibility of all layout guides in your files, from the Zoom/view options menu. This is great if you'd like to preview how a design will look, without having to remove or hide layout guides for individual objects. Learn more about layout guides .

 

 
 Open the Zoom/view options menu.

 If there is no check next to the Layout guides option, click to enable them.

 If there is a check already showing, clicking Layout guides will hide them.

 You can also use the keyboard shortcuts to toggle layout guides:
 
 Mac: Control G 

 Windows: Ctrl Shift 4 

 

 
 Multiplayer cursors

 If you're collaborating with other team members in a file, you will be able to see their cursors. Collaborator names and cursors are shown next to their location on the canvas.

 If you don't want to be distracted by other users, you can hide their cursors from your view.

 
 Open the Zoom/view options menu.

 If there is no check next to the Multiplayer cursors option, click to display them.

 If there is a check already showing, click Multiplayer cursors again to hide.

 You can also use the keyboard shortcut to toggle multiplayer cursors:
 
 
 Mac :  Option Command \ 

 
 Windows : Ctrl Alt \ 

 

 
 

 Property labels

 You can enable  Property labels to add additional context to settings in the right sidebar. If you're new to Figma, this can help you become familiar with the different properties. 

 
 Open the Zoom/view options menu.

 If there is no check next to the Property labels option, click to enable them.

 If there is a check already showing, click Property labels again to hide them.

 
 

 Prototype flows

 A prototype is the network of frames and connections in a single page. Prototypes can map out a user's entire journey through your app or website, or can focus on a specific segment or flow. Learn more about prototyping .

 If you only have can view
 access to a file, you can't create prototypes or make changes to an existing prototype. However, you can still view existing prototype connections by toggling the Prototyping view option:

 
 In the toolbar, click the current zoom percentage to open the Zoom/view options menu.

 Select  Prototyping  to toggle prototype connections on or off.

 
 
 
 Note: If you have can edit
 access to the file, you won’t have the Prototyping setting in your view options. Instead, you can view prototype flows by switching to the  Prototype tab. Learn more about viewing prototype connections .

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Was this article helpful? 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Help Center feedback 
 
 Got a second? Tell us what we’re doing well. 
 
 
 
 
 Submit article feedback 
 Your feedback helps us improve Figma’s Help Center. To get help from support, submit a request through our contact form .

 
 
 
 Help Center feedback 
 
 Thanks for letting us know! What was the issue? 
 
 
 
 
 -- Please choose an option -- 
 Incorrect or missing information 
 Hard to understand 
 There are typos or broken links 
 Issues with images, GIFs, or videos 
 I wish the feature worked a different way 
 Something else 
 
 
 Submit article feedback 
 Your feedback helps us improve Figma’s Help Center. To get help from support, submit a request through our contact form .

 
 

 
 
 Thank you for helping us improve Figma’s Help Center!

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 English (United States)
 
 
 
 Deutsch
 
 
 
 Español (Latinoamérica)
 
 
 
 Español (España)
 
 
 
 Français
 
 
 
 日本語
 
 
 
 한국어
 
 
 
 Nederlands (Nederland)
 
 
 
 Polski (Polska)
 
 
 
 Português do Brasil
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 Use cases

 
 
 UI design 
 

 
 UX design 
 

 
 Prototyping 
 

 
 Graphic design 
 

 
 Wireframing 
 

 
 Brainstorming 
 

 
 Templates 
 

 
 Remote design 
 

 
 

 
 Explore

 
 
 Design features 
 

 
 Prototyping features 
 

 
 Design systems features 
 

 
 Collaboration features 
 

 
 FigJam 
 

 
 Pricing 
 

 
 Enterprise 
 

 
 Students and educators 
 

 
 Customers 
 

 
 Security 
 

 
 Integrations 
 

 
 Contact 
 

 
 

 
 Resources

 
 
 Blog 
 

 
 Best practices 
 

 
 Support 
 

 
 Developers 
 

 
 Learn design 
 

 
 Downloads 
 

 
 What's new 
 

 
 Releases 
 

 
 Careers 
 

 
 About us 
 

 
 Agency partners 
 

 
 Privacy 
 

 
 Status