

 
 

 Apply constraints to define how layers resize – Figma Learn - Help Center

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 Figma Learn
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 enterto select
 ↑↓to navigate
 escto close
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
Figma Design
 
Design and prototype in one place
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Figma Make
 
 
Prompt to code anything you can imagine
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Dev Mode
 
Translate designs into code
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Figma Weave
 New
 
 
AI workflows for imagery, video, and audio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Figma Motion
 New
 
 
Create precise, production-ready animations
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
FigJam
 
Collaborate with a digital whiteboard
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Figma Draw
 
 
Illustrate with advanced vector tools
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Figma Slides
 
Co-create presentations
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
Figma Sites
 Beta
 
 
Publish fully responsive websites
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Figma Buzz
 Beta
 
 
Produce on-brand assets at scale
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
AI
 
Explore all Figma AI features
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Developer docs
 
Work with APIs, embeds, and more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For everyone
 

 

 Account
 
 
Manage settings
 
Change preferences
 
 
 

 Files and projects
 
 
Use the file browser
 
Manage files and projects
 
 
 
 
 

 
For administration
 

 

 Billing
 
 
Overview
 
Manage seats
 
Manage your plan
 
Pay for Figma
 
 
 
 

 Teams
 
 
Manage a team
 
 
 

 Organizations
 
 
Overview
 
Login and authentication
 
Deploy Figma
 
Members and guests
 
Teams
 
Libraries and resources
 
 
 

 Enterprise
 
 
Billing groups
 
Workspaces
 
Security features
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Find out more
 

 
 

 
 

 
Courses and collections
 New
 
 
 
Level up your Figma skills with these comprehensive skill-based courses.
 
 
 

 
 

 
Projects
 
 
 
Get hands-on experience in Figma with these practical bite-sized projects.
 
 
 

 
 

 
Tutorials
 
 
 
Explore tools and features by watching and following along with these expert-led video tutorials.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Get solutions
 

 
 

 

 
Troubleshoot
 
 
 
Get help with common issues and troubleshoot unexpected behavior.
 
 
 

 

 
Work with support
 
 
 
Submit a bug report, get help collecting log files, and find your system information.
 
 
 

 

 
Common questions
 
 
 
Get answers to frequently asked questions.
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
Figma Community Forum
 
 
Ask the community, share ideas, and connect with other Figma users.
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 Apply constraints to define how layers resize
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Who can use this feature

Available on all plans.

Anyone with can edit access can apply and edit constraints.

Constraints tell Figma how layers should respond when you resize their frames. This helps you to control how designs look across different screen sizes and devices.

You can check out the video below, or continue reading to find out more.

Horizontal and vertical constraints

You can apply constraints along both the x (horizontal) and y (vertical) axis.

We set a layer's constraints to Top and Left by default.

Horizontal

Horizontal constraints define how a layer behaves, as you resize the frame along the x axis.

Left maintains the layer’s position, relative to the left side of the frame.

Right maintains the layer’s position, relative to the right side of the frame.

Left and right maintains the layer’s size and position relative to both sides of the frame. This may cause layers to grow or shrink along the x axis, when resized.

Center maintains the layer’s position, relative to the horizontal center of the frame.

Scale will define the layer’s size and position as a percentage of the frame's dimensions. It will then maintain those proportions as you resize it.

For example: The frame's width is 100px and the layer's width is 70px, so the layer takes up 70% of its parent frame. If we resize the frame to 200px wide, Figma will resize the layer to a width of 140px, 70% of 200px.

Vertical

Vertical constraints define how a layer behaves, as you resize the frame along the y axis.

Top maintains the layer’s position, relative to the top of the frame.

Bottom maintains the layer’s position, relative to the bottom of the frame.

Top and bottom maintains the layer’s size and position relative to the top and bottom of the frame. This may cause layers to grow or shrink along the y axis, when resized.

Center maintains the layer’s position, relative to the vertical center of the frame.

Scale will define the layer’s size and position as a percentage of the frame's dimensions. It will then maintain those proportions as you resize it.

Note: Depending on the layer’s position, more than one constraint may achieve the same result.

Apply constraints to a layer

You can apply constraints to any layer within a frame. It's not possible to apply constraints to layers outside of a frame, or layers in an auto layout frame.

You can also apply constraints to frames you have nested within other frames.

You can apply both horizontal and vertical constraints to layers.

You can't apply constraints to groups. A group will inherit its bounds from the layers contained within it. They aren't considered a single layer with bounds.

Note: If you apply constraints to a group, Figma applies constraints to the individual layers. 

To set the constraints for a layer:

Select the layer or parent within the frame. The blue dotted line on the canvas shows which constraints are currently applied.

Click [icon] Constraints from the Position section of the right sidebar.

Adjust the vertical and horizontal constraints.

Use the drop down menus to set the layer's constraints.

Or, click on the lines in the interactive diagram to select a constraint.

Tip! Hold down Shift to select or apply more than one constraint at a time. For example: left and right constraints.

Ignore constraints

Sometimes you may want to resize a frame or layer, without using the constraints that are applied to it. You can temporarily ignore any constraints applied to a layer by holding down a modifier key.

Mac: Hold down Command when you resize

Windows: Hold down Ctrl when you resize

Constraints and layout guides

Constraints give you a basic framework for positioning layers within a frame. When it comes to more complex designs, we need more precise control and flexibility. This ensures our designs behave when resized.

That’s where guides come into play. When you use a guide within a frame, Figma aligns any layers within the frame to that guide. Learn how to work with constraints and layout guides →

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Was this article helpful?
 

 Yes
 No
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Help Center feedback
 
 Got a second? Tell us what we’re doing well.
 
 
 
 
 Submit article feedback
 
Your feedback helps us improve Figma’s Help Center. To get help from support, submit a request through our contact form.
 
 
 
 Help Center feedback
 
 Thanks for letting us know! What was the issue?
 
 
 
 
 -- Please choose an option --
 Incorrect or missing information
 Hard to understand
 There are typos or broken links
 Issues with images, GIFs, or videos
 I wish the feature worked a different way
 Something else
 
 
 Submit article feedback
 
Your feedback helps us improve Figma’s Help Center. To get help from support, submit a request through our contact form.
 
 
 
 

 
Thank you for helping us improve Figma’s Help Center!
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 English (United States)
 
 
 
 Deutsch
 
 
 
 Español (Latinoamérica)
 
 
 
 Español (España)
 
 
 
 Français
 
 
 
 日本語
 
 
 
 한국어
 
 
 
 Nederlands (Nederland)
 
 
 
 Polski (Polska)
 
 
 
 Português do Brasil
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Use cases
 
 

 UI design
 
 

 UX design
 
 

 Prototyping
 
 

 Graphic design
 
 

 Wireframing
 
 

 Brainstorming
 
 

 Templates
 
 

 Remote design
 
 
 
 

 Explore
 
 

 Design features
 
 

 Prototyping features
 
 

 Design systems features
 
 

 Collaboration features
 
 

 FigJam
 
 

 Pricing
 
 

 Enterprise
 
 

 Students and educators
 
 

 Customers
 
 

 Security
 
 

 Integrations
 
 

 Contact
 
 
 
 

 Resources
 
 

 Blog
 
 

 Best practices
 
 

 Support
 
 

 Developers
 
 

 Learn design
 
 

 Downloads
 
 

 What's new
 
 

 Releases
 
 

 Careers
 
 

 About us
 
 

 Agency partners
 
 

 Privacy
 
 

 Status
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

